You know,
the guy who does it the best today about cutting angles and being bright in
front of you. And can't him, his little Chanco, I mean,
Loma Chanco stands right in front of you and then he's not.
And then he's over here and he's punching you in the face. TJ Dillashaw,
who's a UFC bantamweight champion said he sparred with him. And he said,
the first round was like, you know, Lama triangles, just feeling them up,
just figuring them out. And you know, he's like, man,
I'm kind of hanging in there with this guy.
And then his dad yelled something in Russian.
And then the second round Loma Chanco goes, just dancing around him,
stepping to the side.
That was the only round they put on YouTube too. You know what I mean? Um, yeah,
I seen that, you know, the thing with Loma Chanco is this, uh,
and I tell people also like Floyd Mayweather was,
is unbelievable defensive fighter, but Floyd was really good on drawing you in,
you know,
and kind of countering off that his deepest and his reflexes were amazing,
but he kind of lured you in a little bit made you miss make,
you made you make a mistake and then he would counter you Loma Chanco.
On the other hand is a guy you could throw a punch and Neff punch could be a
midair and he's spinning and he's already behind you is, uh,
the athleticism is astonishing. I have not seen it. Uh,
granted, can he lose absolutely as boxing?
And if you get one of them rugged guys that are just going to come in and say,
you know what, screw it. I'm going to, I'm just going to get hit,
but I'm going to hit him. That may be a type of fighter that beats Alma Chanco.
Well, w who was it? That was it.
The Mexican guy who beat him in one of his first fights.
Oh, uh Salise.
Salito Salito right, right, right. Yeah.
That was the kind of fight that he fought. Yeah. Just dirty. Got on top of him.
But you got to understand on that point too,
that was a Loma Chanco second pro fight. Yeah. And I guess a real.
Veteran.
A guy who's been there and done it and seen it. And that's the argument.
And it's hard to explain again. And that was another argument on is, uh,
the ag is a little frustrated reading, second profile, and usually in boxing,
it goes like the first year,
you're up for six second year. You, maybe you start getting up to eight,
but you get a good amount of fights under your belt before you start getting
into the 10 rounds and 12 rounds. Okay. Um,
you're talking about a kid coming out of the amateurs fighting three
three-minute rounds or four, two minute rounds,
depending on whatever tournament or international tournament it is.
And he's going ready to a 12, 12 round fight.
I know my myself coming up and the process that top rung brought me up,
which was a great process to they've had they picked a fights and they made
sure that the fights that they picked for me,
where to correct flights and a Gruen me the right way, you know,
by rounds and everything else. And I know just jumping from six to eight,
the difference in that, you know,
let alone being a kid and you're going into your second pro fight and you're
fighting a 12 round fight. So if he lost that fight,
which he came back and he made it a really close fight,
I would have to tip my hat to him just on the fact that he was able to go 12
rounds. Yeah. You know, um, people take a lot away from that fighter.
What he accomplished is something that not many can do well.
It's crazy. I mean, he had a second pro title at what, how many fights in.
Yeah.
The second fight was for the rule title that he wanted the role title on his
dirt profile. Yeah.
Yeah. That's insane. And then, but he's had more than one per world title,
right?
Yes. He's won. Think three different way classes though.
But the second one was something insane. Some insanely short.
So he pull up his record. Yeah.
I believe I looked at this.
What's that first fight was for the international featherweight title that was
against Toledo Ramirez. He said, oh,
he lost against Lido for the vacant WBO featherweight title. Oh, okay.
So the other, what was the first title? International featherweight title. WBO.
Yeah. That's not a real, that's not an illegal world title. This,
they have a bunch of weird titles, right? Like international title,
continental title.
Assaulting me. I had to do, I.
Had to deal with the world champion, but you had all of it. You were unified.
I should have been by all rights, but Taylor vacated too. Oh, that's right.
Yeah. But he, you know, that's why I get mad.
And that's another big argument boxing.
How you break that down between the lineal, the lineal and a unanimous,
you know, I had to ring the WBO.
Scroll, scrub, CC his homework. So what was his, uh, okay.
So his second world title was when retained
retained one. Okay. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6 fights in he's in his second he's um, he that's, when he, he,
he wins his second title, six fights in, he wins a junior lightweight title.
That's insane. Yeah.
International. Okay. That wasn't the first one. Wasn't a real title flight.
It was the what's. The second one was the WB.
Title fight. 11 fights end. He wins his third world title. What in the.
I believe now there was at one point it was seven roll champions.
And just that short period of fights, I believe it's around eight now,
eight roll champions. He's fought in just a short period, uh,
three different way classes.
I think when he fought with Gandhi out,
you really got a chance to see how he handles a real
world class, you know,
Cuban amateur system trained top of the food chain boxer.
And he just put it to that dude.
That was the fight that actually really sold me on I go.
Cause I thought for a fact that that was going to be a chess match because of
the boxing ability from Regan dollar, their styles were very similar.
And I thought that, you know, I was like,
it's going to be a boring fight for the first like four rounds,
which I still would have liked. Cause I like watching that type of fights,
you know? And um, I see I go in there and I'm expecting this fight, you know,
to the amateur background of both guys,
the how talented guys are in a skill level of both guys and then
Mexican, I know I'm two or three rounds into it and I'm going,
he's playing with Brigham dough, playing with them. I'm going to hell.
That's the fight that really sold me on Loma Jayco. That he's that good.
My man, Vinny Pazienza called that, not Vinny, the ends of the boxer,
Vinny paths, the rapper, this guy jet on mine tricks. He called it.
He was taking, he was taking bets on Instagram.
He called it that early too.
Yeah. It seems taken bets on Instagram.
And you think [inaudible] has anything for him?
He's like fi five minute DMS. He goes, it's bet.
Yep. I, uh, I took Loma Shanko and I fight,
but I thought it was going to be a close fight, a really close fight.
And I thought Loma Chanco was going to pull ahead in the later rounds, you know,
and when that fight. So that's why I really surprised.
MI well, it was a stunning display of talent. He such a weird guy too,
because his background, you know,
the store where his father took him out of boxing and made him do traditional
Russian dancing for several years and just made him learn that for
footwork. It seems like his dad was just a mastermind architect of a champion.
Yeah.
And you applied no more on this,
the Norwood didn't he also have a martial art background. I heard.
Uh, he definitely can do martial arts techniques. I've seen it,
but I don't know what.
I may.
Have a martial arts background. Maybe. I don't know. That makes sense. He's a,
his foot work though is so extraordinary.
And if that really is that dancing background,
like learning the footwork and the,
the way he he's so agile with the stepping of his feet, it's like,
I think a lot of people are going to learn in mere that.
Yeah. His training regimen is pretty brutal. So I got a buddy, uh, Roger Romo,
um, good friend of mine. He's actually,
he was working for a little while there up until the last fight.
He was a strength and conditioning coach with Sicilian Flores,
who was mine when I was an Ochsner training.
And they said it was just crazy that the hours that he puts in, how he trains,
how hard he trains and some of the drills that he does, you know,
I'm looking at them and going, I could use these, not for me,
but I could use them for somebody athletes that I got now.
Yeah. He's um, he's definitely something special and you know,
you get those guys and it's just,
it's kind of a shame that he's a little too small for Terence Crawford.
You know? I mean, I really would love to see those two fight,
but it seems like Crawford's just a little bit too heavy for him.
I agree. But that's, uh, you know, and that's another touchy subject, uh,
cause I kinda agree with you,
but I also go back cause I'm always trying to really break down and nitpick.
I look at guys like Manny Pacquiao, who was it who came from,
I believe one 12 or something like that and went up all the way to junior
middleweight, which is crazy. Yeah. He's small, shorter than,
than Loman Chanco and it,
other than his calves and I don't think anything else is much bigger than Loman
Chanco on his body and he was able to do it.
And what the is going on with his calves? I don't know.
It's like he's keeping hams in them. I don't know.
He does. I, you know, I wish I knew the secret today cause I could use it. So.
Get that secret to Jones.
Article says that his mother was actually a martial art still is a martial
artist. Oh interesting. Hmm. Gymnast and martial artist.
Well it makes sense boxer. Yeah man footwork. The way he does it is just,
it's something to watch, man. It's just the, the,
the ability to do move and also to anticipate the other fighters
movements it's like, especially earlier in his career,
it's like he was fighting guys that just,
they seemed so crude in comparison to his approach. You know,
it's even more crazy about it as being the opponent because usually you go into
a fight and you break down film and you're going over to film and you got a good
idea of what he does. Right. What he does wrong and,
and what you might want to have to do long. And frankly,
it's hard to pick up where he's going to go. He different angles. So you can't,
you can't go well, you know what, after he throws the right hand,
he likes to move over to the left because he does it one time.
And then the next time he's totally somewhere opposite. You know what I mean?
And yeah, the angles, it's really almost impossible to break film down on them.
You know, like this last bite we'll just portray as, so everybody's going,
that was the blueprint. No, no, no. It wasn't, you know, uh,
inner and it was a closer fight than people expected. I go, why?
Because he finally got hit with more than 11 punches.
Oh, that's him doing some, uh, Samba, I believe. Yeah.
He's a trained at when he was a younger Greco. Roman. Yeah. Yeah.
He's he's slamming kids. That's right. Well, you know what, man,
I believe in cross-training and I think that there's certainly some skills that
would make you better at different martial arts. And uh,
I feel like if you have the ability to wrestle guys and,
and move guys' bodies around like that, you would get from something like Samba.
I just feel like as a, an elite boxer, having that extra strength,
that extra ability to move your core that way. I think that would be beneficial.
Yeah. I mean,
the thing is no world-class boxer has the time to also be doing judo and also
be doing wrestling. You just don't have the time, no.
Being in combat sports. Even I know that as far as I'm not involved in MMA,
but I know that, you know, these guys, they have to, uh,
perfect three or four as much time in a short period of time. You know,
I imagine, I think Matt was telling me,
you will know more like sometimes it's two days of one, two days of the next,
um, trying to fit that in. Yeah. It's hard. You cannot, especially in boxing,
the sweet science where it's just hands, but you got people,
that's all they do all day long.
That's why I say it's so unfair when an MMA guy goes into fights and may
whether, because Mayweather,
he perfected that and you got to use just that style of boxing.
It's going to be almost impossible to beat a boxer, a rural champion.